Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to create our first function within unreal.
Now the key thing here is.
And as you can see on the screen that your function ideally should do only one thing.
Now what do I mean by that.
Well functions work best when they are doing something specific.
It makes it much easier to read your code.
It makes it much easier to debug it makes it much easier to name your file as well.
So the name of the function tells us what it does.
And often it's the case if you're having trouble naming your functions it might be doing too much to
try to make sure your functions only do one thing.
The great thing as well is if the only does one thing is you're likely to be able to reuse it later
in your code as well if that happens to come up now let's go ahead now and dissect a function before
we go in and write the code.
First of all this is how we're going to be writing our functions within our game itself.
First of all if we have a look at the left void as you can remember from the previous section is returning
nothing.
So this function itself is not going to return anything that we're going to use later.
It's just going to perform what it's been told to do.
Then we've got this new Bull Cal cartridge.
This is the class the init game is part of.
Now you can see there we've got the scope resolution operator.
Those two colons next to one another and one of the reasons for this is if we had multiple classes that
we were working with we would end up with a clash at some point with functions being named the same.
So this is a way of making sure that we are calling the right function the one that we intend to.
And without it we would be defining a nonmember function.
OK.
So that's enough of a very dive over into V.S. code now and start building up our function okay.
So there are three things while at least three things that we need to do we need to declare we need
to make a function declaration over in the header file then in the CBP file in the book how countries
C++ file what we will do is we will have a call.
We will call in it game to initialize the game.
But we'd also have to define what that actually means.
And that will be beneath these two functions we already have big in play and on input.
So down here line 52 onwards we will do a definition.
What does initialize game or init game actually do.
So let's start in the head of file itself.
We need to say void we're not returning anything.
And then I've chosen in it to game as an initialize game function that we need are parentheses followed
by a semicolon.
That's that bit done.
There we go.
It's just gone through the code all the red squiggles done saved my head.
Now bear in mind because we've edited the header file.
It will now take slightly longer in real when we hit compile.
Let's go over to the C++ file so we can do a couple of things here.
I'm going to go up and have a look at the code that is initialized in the game so that's this area here
setting up the game.
So let's type in a call of it game.
So we're going to call the function in it.
Game and then we go.
That's the call.
All done.
And this is the code that we need.
We're going to set the hidden word and set the lines as well.
And there is another thing that will added that in a future lecture.
But for now we'll leave those two things.
So I am going to cut that out of the way so we can paste it in to the function once we've started defining
it so the way that we're going to define the functions here is just the same as the other ones that
are already in here.
So we've got void you bowl cow cartridge colon colon in it game.
There we go.
It's come up and I've press tab to also complete our parentheses.
There won't be a semicolon on the end of this one but what we will do is have our curly braces ready
to put our code in.
So we've defining what this init game actually does.
The first thing it's going to do is set the header word and then we need to set our lives so let's overview
what we've done so far.
We have done a function declaration over on the header file.
We have defined what that function is doing beneath the other functions and then we're calling it's
here when we called in it game.
Now those are at least the three things we need to do.
Remember now that we've declared it and defined it we can use in it game anywhere in our code here which
is really useful because I think we will be using it once again when we start setting up our main game
loop which now we're only a few lines of code until we reach that point.
So with that knowledge it's time for your challenge.
OK so your challenge I'd like you to go ahead and declare and initialize lives declare the member variable
lives initialized lives in the init game function now lives will be an integer then if you cast your
mind back a few lectures we're all new to this of course we've got unreal specific types for integers.
In this case we're going to use an int 32 rather than just int in order to set the integers type and
then of course we need to make sure we test our game and make sure it's still working as it was previously.
Polls of the year now and give that a go Okay everybody Welcome back let's go hop on over into v as
code declare and initialize lives and test our game okay.
So once again we're going to declare lives.
So down here with our declarations it is going to be a member variable and you see why.
As we develop the code so it's a type int 32 and then we get a call it lives okay.
So that's it declared let's go ahead save our pedophile go into the main C++ file and then we need to
define it down here where we've got setting lives.
Now I realize here that I didn't she tell you what to set it to what to assign the value lives on my
set it to four.
Now you may argue at this point in time whether or not set lives and set the hidden word are great comments
is obvious what they're doing at the moment the hidden word is being assigned in this case cake they'll
be swapped out later and lives is being assigned the value for them.
I think we can nuke these comments.
I don't think they add anything yes that looks much cleaner now.
So let's go ahead and say if that's okay.
And just before I go and open up the book our project itself and I'm real I would like to just talk
about the positioning of this and why it works down here.
Some of you may be thinking at the moment.
Well doesn't this just read from the top down and therefore how are we able to use this function that
we've created when it's all the way down here.
Well it's already been declared so we can use it if we have a look at the header file itself we'll see
that we have declared it here remember that's what we've done and that the header file itself is simply
cut and paste into the top of the C++ file.
That's what this include bulk how cartridge header file is doing and basically what that means that
we can do is define any of our functions.
After that scroll back up here the include.
Now the reason why I've popped it at the bottom is what I'd like to do and what I'd like to encourage
you guys to do as well is when you're creating these top level parts of your code it would be great
if when you look at them you know how the game works.
So if this is absolutely clear that it's initializing the game or setting up the game then that means
that you don't have to necessarily go down to find out how it is implemented.
So it's much better higher up your code if you can read what's happening.
And then if you need to know how it is happening then of course you can go down to the relative area
case of the book how game has loaded up.
Let's have a look okay.
So now that's opened up hit compile this will take a little longer to compile than normal.
And when it's done we can play our game and make sure it works okay with a compile complete let's press
play.
Welcome to ball cows.
Let's go ahead now and typing cake.
Yes it works and it says we've lost.
Perfect.
So that's behaving exactly the same as it did before.
If we go over and have a look at our code we've simply moved these lines of code out of the begin play.
Is now much easier to read setting up the game in the game.
How did your first function go.
Please show your work over in the discussions.
And I've had a thought here perhaps in it game is not clear enough.
Looking at the fact that we've had two comments set with setting up game perhaps sets up game would
have been better but hang on we've used in it game in multiple places in multiple files surely must
be a quick way to be able to change them across.
Everywhere it's used and we find out that in the next lecture.